---
layout: post
title: Importing Heart Gold and Soul Silver, Buying a PS3, and More
date: '2009-11-12 00:34:43'
---

Wow is all I can say, I haven't updated the blog in over a month and a half, but I have had so much to write about over this time. I didn't forget about the blog, I just have had some higher priorities and other things I have been doing. I haven't watched any anime in probably four weeks, and the sad part is the same thing happened last year at this time too. I guess between school, work, and video games I haven't had the time I want to watch anime and write some posts.

I guess I have some catching up to do on Cross Game, Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, and Dragon Ball Kai, but I am in no rush to marathon them. I don't mind taking my time, but I don't think I will be doing weekly episode postings, they are often too cumbersome and pointless. I also need to start watching shows from this Fall season also, I don't know what happened but it just seems like I lost my interest for a little bit. I guess at times it can seem over whelming to want to watch all these different shows but not always have the time.

On the plus side, a lot has happened in the past month or so, which I would love to share.

I ended up importing both Pokémon Heart Gold and Soul Silver. They are fantastic, I can't stress how much I really enjoy these games. They are import friendly, but a bit pricey especially with quicker shipping options. More on the games in an upcoming post.

I traded in my Xbox 360 and games in order to purchase the 120 GB PS3 Slim, Uncharted 2, Final Fantasy VII and Wild Arms on the PSN, and Metal Gear Solid 4. It seems extremely worth it so far, I like the system, the interface, the controller, and the game library. The fact that it is a Blu-ray player is convenient, even though I don't own any Blu-ray discs yet. I'm glad the online service is free and the wi-fi is built in. The system just seems to fit myself and what I am looking for in a console. It isn't that I hated or disliked my Xbox 360, I just rarely played it or felt it was worth the monthly cost to play online and access certain content.

Uncharted 2 is a great game, easily the best I have played in a long time. The single player mode is pretty lengthy with some deep and fun gameplay, and the multiplayer is basically a combination of the best parts of most online games like CoD4, Gears of War, etc. haven't played too much of Metal Gear Solid 4, but it seems to be a solid game, I will pick it up and play more once I am done with Uncharted 2.

My only gripe/concern with the PS3 is the lack of JRPGs so far, but it seems like a few are on the horizon (Final Fantasy XIII, Last Rebellion, White Knight Chronicles, Star Ocean 4: International). The PS2 had such a rich and plentiful RPG catalog, it is hard to believe the PS3 doesn't have much going for it yet, I only really know of Valkyria Chronicles, Eternal Sonata, Demon's Souls, Disgaea 3, Folklore, and Cross Edge. Not much else comes to mind, and I am not too sure whether or not I should pick up any of these games. I haven't even touched Final Fantasy VII or Wild Arms yet, but I'm looking forward to it greatly.

I realize every year my undying love for the original Star Wars films. They are just so fantastic, I never get tired of watching them. I enjoy the universe greatly, so I picked up the Heir to the Empire novel, and I am about halfway through it. It is very enjoyable and picks up right where Return of the Jedi leaves off.

Final Fantasy XIII is coming out in Japan on December 17, 2009. It seems like the wait it almost over. I ordered my Japanese copy from Play-Asia, and put down a reservation of the English version at my local EB Games. It really does look fabulous.

All in all, I guess not much has happened, but it is nice to be back.